My name's Gary Stevenson.
I'm the author of The Trading Game.
And we are going to talk a little bit
about inflation.
The first thing I want to say is
I was going crazy
about inflation from the very beginning
of the COVID epidemic.
I wrote articles In March 2020,
I put out my first video
on my YouTube in June 2020, saying
we were going to have an inflation crisis
after the end of lockdown
because in my opinion,
it was really obvious
right from the beginning of COVID and I’ll
explain why.
We could see very clearly,
very early on that
there was going
to have to be a long lockdown
and that would be very expensive for the
US government, for the UK government.
We knew truly enormous amounts of money
were going to be given out.
Now my background,
which obviously if you read the book, is
as a trader who looks a lot at inequality.
So when I see that
enormous amounts of money are going to be
given out by the government,
the US government, UK government,
the first question I'm asking is
who's going to end up with that money?
The total amount of money
given out by the US government
since the beginning of COVID,
$10 trillion,
which is just under $80,000
for every US taxpayer.
What that means is if you are
a US taxpayer and you do not have $80,000
cash more now than you did four years ago,
someone has your $80,000.
It's very important that you know who
because if you're going to give out
that much money,
you are going to dramatically transform
your wealth distribution in your country.
I was sort of obsessed
at the beginning of COVID in understanding
who has the money,
because it's quite hard to understand
where it's gone.
The reason that money was given out
because a lot of people lost their jobs
during COVID, couldn’t work.
So you might think that it's people
who couldn't
work are suddenly richer in COVID, but
they're not because they lost their jobs.
So if you follow the money one step
further, you can look at the corporations.
Well, they're not paying wages anymore.
Maybe they're richer, but they're not
because they're closed down.
Well, who normally pays corporations?
Well, that's customers.
And this is the correct answer.
The people who accumulated money
during COVID were customers,
but not all customers, right?
Because if you're an ordinary family
from a poor background,
you're still paying your rent,
still paying your mortgage,
still paying your bills, your expenditure
didn't go down.
What expenditure collapsed during COVID?
Luxury expenditure.
Who has the highest luxury expenditure?
Rich people.
So what happened
during COVID was rich people
stop spending because it was illegal
and the government
effectively printed money
to pay your salary instead,
which you use to pay your rent
or mortgage.
That went to rich people
and rich people kept it.
Imagine if we brought in a tax
that took $80,000 from every US taxpayer
and gave it to the rich.
What would you expect to happen?
Explosion in Inequality.
Living Standards for the rich
getting much better
and ordinary people getting much poorer.
We literally caused inequality to increase
at the fastest rate in the history
of the country during a time
when the economy was literally closed.
And we were surprised when living
standards collapsed on the reopen.
The most frustrating thing about this
is it's fixable
because we can reverse those inequality
increases by taxing the rich.
One thing that I want to make clear
is when I say tax rich people, I'm
not talking about lawyers and doctors
and, heaven forbid, maybe even bankers.
I was a very successful banker
and I earned a lot of money
and I paid a lot of tax.
I was paying over 60%
at the peak of my career.
And at the same time as I did that,
the Duke of Westminster, who is a member
of the British aristocracy,
inherited £10 billion and paid nothing.
Now, what we have in my country
and in your country
are increasingly class based tax systems
where hard working people
from poor and ordinary backgrounds
work hard and pay a huge amount of tax.
And very, very wealthy
people from very, very wealthy backgrounds
don't work, make enormous amounts of money
and pay nothing.
We need to shift the tax system away
from taxing working people and towards
taxing these small amounts of individuals
who increasingly own
everything in our countries
and are driving our families
and our governments into debt.
It's about shifting tax, in my mind
away from work and towards wealth.
It's the only way to prevent inequality
getting higher and higher
and living standards from falling.
And I'm not just saying that.
I'm betting on it.
I've got a long track record
of being right,
and I don't wanna be right on
this one anymore.
Good luck.